=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::UserManager - User Manager for Mojolicious applications

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # Mojolicious::Lite

    my $secure_routes = plugin 'UserManager', {
        storage          => $st,                     # Own storage
        captcha          => 0,                       # Enables captcha for registration ( requires Mojolicious::Plugin::Recaptcha)
        email_confirm    => 1,                       # Send confirmation email (requires Mojolicious::Plugin::Mail)
        admin_confirm    => 'koorchik@gmail.com',    # Admin email (requires Mojolicious::Plugin::Mail)
        password_crypter => sub { $_[0] },           # Save Plain passwords (default MD5)
        site_url         => 'http://localhost:3000',
        
        fields => [
            { name => 'user_id',      label => 'User ID' },
            { name => 'email',        label => 'Email' },
            { name => 'password',     label => 'Password',    check => [ is_required, sub { length($_[0]) < 8 ? "Minimum password length - 8 " : undef; } ]},
            { name => 'first_name',   label => 'First Name',  check => [ is_required, is_like(qr/^\w+$/) ] },
            { name => 'last_name',    label => 'Last Name',   check => [ is_required, is_like(qr/^\w+$/) ] },
        ]
    };
    
    get '/' => sub {
           my $self = shift;
        $self->redirect_to('auth_create_form');
    };

    # Only authenticated users can this
    $secure_routes->get( '/messages', sub {
        my $self = shift;
        $self->render_text('My messages here!');
    });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Mojolicious::Plugin::UserManager - User Manager for Mojolicious applications.

=head1 HELPERS

=head2 user_data

Use this helper in your controllers/templates to access user_data

    <h1>"Welcome, <%= user_data("user_id") %> </h1>
    
=head2 schema_for_field

You can access field schema by name in your controller/templates

	<%= schema_for_field('user_id')->{label} %>: <%= user_data("user_id") %>

=head2 all_fields_schema

Returns arrayref with fields schema (in the same format as "fields" config option)
      <% for my $field ( @{ all_fields_schema() } ) { %>
           <%= $field->{label} %>: <input type='text' name='<%= $field->{name} %>'" />
      <% } %>

=head1 ROUTES

Plugin add several routes. You can use them by names in your application.

=head2 auth_create_form

Show authentication(Login) form. For example, if you want redirect user to login screen - $self->redirect_to('auth_create_form');

=head2 auth_delete 

Delete user authentication(Logout)

=head2 user_create_form

Show user create form (Registration form)

=head2 user_update_form, user_id => $user_id

Show user update form (User settings form)

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 storage

Hash::Storage object (optional)

=head2 captcha (default 0)

Enables CAPTCHA for registration. 

Requires Mojolicious::Plugin::Recaptcha (do not forget to config it)

=head2 email_confirm (default 0)

Send email to user for activation.

Requires Mojolicious::Plugin::Mail (do not forget to config it)

=head2 admin_confirm (default '')

Option contains admin email. After each user registration admin will receive a link for user activation.

Requires Mojolicious::Plugin::Mail (do not forget to config it)

=head2 password_crypter

Reference to a password encrypting subroutine
Default is md5 crypter:

    sub {
        my $pass = shift;
        my $crypted_pass = md5_hex($pass);
        return $crypted_pass; 
    }

=head2 site_url (default 'http://localhost:3000')

site_url is needed only for activation urls

=head2 fields

fields - array of fields schemas
    {
    	name  - Internal field name to store in DB
        check - Field validation callback. Takes field value and returns undef on success and error message on error. You can use Validate::Tiny helpers.
        label - Name that will be shown to user
    }

=head1 METHODS

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::UserManager> inherits all methods from
L<Mojolicious::Plugin> and implements the following new ones.

=head2 C<register>

  $plugin->register;

Register plugin in L<Mojolicious> application.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojolicious>, L<Mojolicious::Guides>, L<http://mojolicio.us>.

=cut